>> Kyle Simpson: Our third and
final list/data structure operation that
we're gonna look at, is called reduce.
If map does transformation, and
filter does inclusion or exclusion,
depending upon your perspective,
reduce combines values.
It's a different sort of an operation,
because it's not actually taking
one individual value at a time and
making some decision on it.
The other two, operate
independently on individual values.
For example,
you could imagine implementing map or
filter in an entirely
parallel sort of scenario.
If you had a million
values in an array and
you had a filter that was parallelizible
across background threads.
You could spin up a million
background threads and
do each filter operation
entirely independent,
because the decision is made only
on that value, same thing with map.
And in fact in many scenarios,
not JavaScript but
in many other functional languages, they
do actually implement things like map and
filter entirely threaded.
So that they can happen in parallel is for
large data structures, but
reduce can't really work that way,
because reduce works with multiple values.
It makes its decision based upon
the current running accumulator,
as well as the next value.
So it's not really
readily parallelizable or
independently parallelizable the way
something like map or filter would be.
So here's how it works, we start with a
collection of values and we need to start
with some sort of initial value that
is appropriate for the list of values.
So if we have a list,
I mean a collection of it, so
if we have for example,
an array of numbers, and
we're gonna do something arithmetic
with those numbers like addition.
A good initial value might be zero,
if we were gonna do multiplication or
even division, a better number might
be the number one, are you with me?
If we're gonna start with a set of strings
and do like some sort of concatenation of
all the strings, a good initial
value would be an empty string.
If we were gonna start with a list of
promises and try to chain all those
promises together, a good initial value
might be an already resolved promise.
If we were gonna start with a list of
functions and have one function call
another and that function call another and
so on and so on, aka, composition.
We might start with the identify function
as a good initial value, you with me?
So you have to select an appropriate
initial value for your reduction.
There are some special cased
implementations of reduce which will,
if you don't provide an initial value.
They will select the first item in
the collection as the initial value and
start the reduction with the next value.
That's a special casing not
all implementations do that,
that can be convenient, but
not all implementations do it.
So generally, the problem is you need to
select a good initial value, and sometimes
that's easy like zero or empty string, and
sometimes it's a little bit more awkward.
So you have to be careful in selection
of your initial value, but anyway,
what it does is, whatever the current
accumulator is, either the initial value,
or if we're deep into the reduction.
It takes the current accumulated value,
and
then it adds in the next
value in our collection,
those two come in together, and
somehow they get combined with a reducer.
So they get combined, we take the number
three and the number four and
we combine them, we reduce them with
addition, and that produces seven.
So now our new accumulator is seven,
or we take two strings and
we combine we reduce them with
concatenation, and now we have one string.
So our reducer function like we have
a mapper and a predicate filter function.
We have a reducer, which takes two inputs
now takes the existing accumulator and
the next value in the collection, and
that reducer decides how to combine them.
,And by the way combination,
the idea of reduction it's
a very general concept, okay.
You might think the only way to reduce two
numbers would be to add them together or
divide them or multiply them, but
you could do a reduction that
just picked one of the two.
For example you wanted to pick out all the
evens you could do a reduction that just
only selects evens, right, so combination
is whatever you define it to be.
Reduction is whatever you define it to be,
but
it is often times something where
the values end up together in some way,
like strings or numbers or functions or
promises or whatever, okay?
So, the way it looks is we
start with an initial value and
we start adding stuff in, combining all
of these down to a single discrete value.
>> Kyle Simpson: Often you would
start with say, list of numbers and
produce from a reduction,
a single number as a result.
Or start with a list of strings and
have a single string, but
it is not always the case.
Reduce is actually kind of swiss army
knife of functional programming,
because you don't even have to
produce a single discrete value,
you can produce another data
structure from a reduce.
You could start with a list of numbers and
reduce that to an object with
properties holding those numbers.
Or you could start with
a list of numbers and
produce a whole different list of numbers.
As a matter of fact, counterintuitively,
a list of numbers could be reduced
to an even longer list of numbers.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
So it's a very general operation,
in fact, it's so general, and
we're gonna come back to this
a bit later in this discussion.
It is so general that both map and
filter can be implemented with a reduce.
>> Kyle Simpson: Think about this for a
moment, if reduce, the way a reduce works,
if at each operation I
have an accumulator and
I have a value,
if my accumulator is a new list.
Starts out empty, and
I decide to put stuff into it,
if I call the mapper function, and
I take the value and I put it in,
the end result is a new
list that's been mapped.
Or if I did an if statement with
a predicate and only put stuff
in if the predicate reduced,
the result of that reduction is a filter.
So it's the swiss army, now it can
produce any of the other operations,
basically any of the other operations
can be expressed in terms of reduction.
Tremendously powerful, but
just don't get intimidated by it,
you'll often just do basic reductions,
like a list of numbers down to a number or
something like that, okay.
So how would we implement or reduce?
Let's say that I had a list of lists,
so I have a two dimensional array here,
these are basically,
it's like a list of tuples.
Remember we talked about two
tuples before a two element array?
Well, I'm gonna interpret my tuples
as the first element representing
a property name, and
the second element representing a value.
And I'm gonna reduce my list of tuples
into an object, so here's my reduce,
and you'll notice that my
implementation of reduce is generic.
It doesn't know anything about
what I'm gonna reduce over,
it just knows that I'm reducing over
an array and producing some new value.
So we start with an initial value and
we call the reducer with the current
accumulator the RET variable and
that's the current accumulator.
And the next element, and
whatever that returns becomes
the next accumulated value.
And we just keep doing that over and
over until we're done,
we can pass that a list of tuples, and if
our add to record reducer up at the top.
Takes in a record, that's our object our
running object that we're gonna build up,
and it takes in a tuple.
I'm doing a destructuring there,
this is partly just to be
saving space on the slides,
but I'm showing that my element is a tuple
and I don't really care about the tuple.
I care about the key and
the value in the tuple, so
I've got a desctructuring there that says,
give me the key and give me the value, and
I just make a new copy of the object.
That's what ...record does, and
then I add in the next key,
that bracket key is the computed property
name from key and then I set the value.
Why do you suppose I didn't just
add the property to the object,
why did I make a copy of
the object every time?
>> Student: Because you
don't wanna mutate the-
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't want to
mutate, right?
If I just added the key to the object,
we'd end up with the same result, but
now we would have had
basically an impure reducer,
creating a side effect at each
iteration on some single shared object.
And that may or may not create bugs,
in our particular case,
it may be would have been safe.
But it's a terrible idea to ever,
ever, ever assume that it's okay for
you to just mutate a value that somebody
else passed to you that you don't control.
Remember, we talked in immutability
earlier in the course,
anytime we receive a value assume
that you're not allowed to mutate it,
you've gotta make a copy of
it if you wanna extend it.
So that's why we write to reduce our
online 2 to make a copy of the object.
>> Kyle Simpson: Reduce of course is
implemented on JavaScript arrays.
Same thing, we start with an array,
we call reduce with our reducer, and
then we give it an initial value
in this case the empty object.
>> Kyle Simpson: I wanna call
something out about our reducer,
because I wanna call back to something
we talked about earlier in the course,
which was the shape of things.
Remember we talked about the shape
of functions, look at the shape
of our reducer and compare it to
the say the shape of a mapper.
The shape of our reducer is that it takes
in two values and produces one output,
whereas the mapper function takes in
one value and produces one output.
So a map function is unary a predicate
is unary, but a reducer is binary.
And a little bit later in our discussion,
the shape of these things,
the relative shapes of them
is gonna matter a whole lot.
When we're talking about trying
to put things together if they
don't have a compatible shape, they don't
fit the Lego pieces don't fit, okay.
So remember at the very
beginning of this course I said,
functional programmers
love unary functions.
The math, the way it works out, unary
functions are just so easy, the Lego's
just work together, we can compose them,
we can do all kinds of stuff.
But when we have non unary functions,
the next best thing is
a binary function that looks like this,
which is a reduce, okay.
So essentially,
any function that takes two inputs and
somehow produces one output
from those two inputs,
can be thought of as a reducer,
it fits that shape as a reducer.
And that's something I want you to
keep in the back of your head for
later on in our discussion.